JUDY WOODRUFF: As senators
continue their fight over
health care, there are new feuds
bubbling on the other end
of Pennsylvania Avenue.
From cracking down on
leaks to weighing Attorney
General Jeff Sessions'
future, and the president
calling for an end to
transgender military
service members, the
White House is putting
out a number of fires this week.
We turn to Karine Jean-Pierre.
She's a senior adviser to
MoveOn.org and a veteran of
the Obama administration.
And Matt Schlapp, he's
the chairman of the
American Conservative
Union and the former
deputy political director
for President George W. Bush.
And welcome to both of
you, Matt and Karine.
Speaking of fires, I have to
ask both of you first about a
story, a remarkable story that
has just appeared late
this afternoon in "The New
Yorker" magazine, Matt.
Essentially it's the new
head of communications at
the White House, Anthony
Scaramucci, placing
a phone call last night
to the writer Ryan
Lizza and screaming at
him, wanting to know
who leaked information
about a dinner, using
very strong language,
threatening -- virtually
threatening him, saying, I need
to know who the leakers are,
saying he's gone to the FBI,
the Department of Justice.
What's going on at
the White House?
MATT SCHLAPP, Former White
House Director of Political
Affairs: Well, on my drive over
to the studio, I was going to
have my 14-year-old daughter
read this article to me.
I'm glad I didn't,
because it does have
some colorful language.
I think Anthony Scaramucci
is already out on
Twitter apologizing
for the language, but
I think the key here is
that this whole question
of leaks inside the
West Wing, it is a real
cancer.
And for those of us who want
President Trump to succeed in
his agenda, to succeed, it's
been a real distraction to
getting the agenda through.
And I think Scaramucci's trying
to take care of the leaks,
and, unfortunately, he thought
he was having a conversation
that was off-the-record,
but apparently he didn't
make that clear to
the reporter.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Karine, what
does it say when you have this
level of leaking and animosity
going on inside the
White House this early
in the administration?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE,
Democratic Strategist:
Well, it's quite insane.
I worked in the White House
in the Obama administration.
I have never seen
anything like this before.
But if this is Scaramucci's
role, is to take care of the
leaks, that's really going to
be a full-time job for him.
And, honestly, Judy, if he is
-- if that is something that
he's truly working on, he needs
to start in the Oval Office.
He needs to start from
the top all the way down.
That's where the leaks are.
It's not the junior staffers.
It's the senior staffers,
starting with Donald
Trump, the president.
And the senior staffers are
just trying the save their jobs.
And that's why they're
leaking the way that they are.
But, also, this is a reason
why for the first six months of
the administration, that this
administration has not been
able to get anything done.
They have not really passed
one piece of major legislation,
because of stuff like this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matt, what
about that, the fact that it's
just -- it's not just -- it's
not lower-level people who
are talking to the press; it's
people up and down and going
all the way to the top
of the White House?
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes.
So, I mean, there are
always leaks that come
out of the White House.
And, sometimes, those leaks are
intended to inform the press in
kind of an anonymous fashion.
But what's happened in the
Trump White House, it's just a
melee of weeks, where people are
leaking on each other
in the West Wing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why?
MATT SCHLAPP: I think that the
White House - - the West Wing
wasn't set up to be efficient
and successful from
the very beginning.
I think they actually can look
at the way that they set up
the West Wing, and there's
not a kind of a sheriff in town.
I remember, when I worked for
Andy Card in the West Wing,
and he told me, especially
when I took the job as political
director, he said, if you
miss -- if you overstep your
trust with the president, there
will be a cardboard box on
your desk, fill it and leave.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Well, I was struck.
I just...
MATT SCHLAPP: Now, he didn't
do that to me, but he would
have done it had I overstepped
the boundaries.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to stay
with you just a moment, Matt,
because there is a line in
here that really strikes me.
Ryan Lizza with "The New
Yorker" writes, he said: "Unlike
other Trump advisers, I have
never heard him," meaning
Scaramucci, "say a bad
word about the president."
So he's saying everybody
else is criticizing the
president who hired them.
MATT SCHLAPP: Well, I don't
want the get into - - I don't
know these conversations.
All I can tell you is that
one of the issues, as the West
Wing was pulled together, the
staff was pulled together, is
it was kind of an interesting
concoction of people that
weren't really with the
president's campaign.
So, he did pull together people,
maybe in the hopes to kind
of like bring kind of unity
to the party.
But it has always been fearful
that you had people who were
either never-Trump or didn't
have much respect for the Trump
-- for President Trump who got
senior administration positions.
And I worked for a Republican
president who I admired and
who I loved and I would have
just done almost anything for
professionally, and when you
don't have that spirit with some
staffers, it can cause
a lot of problems.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Karine, I know
I'm asking you as an outsider
and somebody from the other
party to weigh in on this, but
do you see a solution here?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE:
No, not at all.
Look, I think I have said this
before on your show, Judy,
which is the fish rots at his
head.
This is the type of environment
that Donald Trump has set up.
He's brought in the
corporate life, the way he
was as a CEO, as the head
of Trump Organization,
and brought it into
the White House.
He loves this stuff.
He loves the inter-fighting.
He likes when they're fighting
for his -- the dear leader
affection of Donald Trump.
And so it's not going
to -- it doesn't matter
if it's Scaramucci.
It doesn't matter who it is.
It doesn't matter if
Priebus stays or leaves.
It starts with the person at the
top, and that's Donald Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, one
other -- two other things I
want to ask you both about,
but first the announcement
by Twitter yesterday
from the president that
he wanted to ban all
people who are transgender
from serving in the military.
And, Matt, I want to go back
and remind -- show everybody in
our audience, this is what the
president had to say last year,
just a year ago, that this
was the day after the Orlando
nightclub shooting.
He gave a national security
speech in New Hampshire, and
here's what he had to say.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States: Ask yourself,
who is really the friend of
women and the LB -- and
LGBT community, Donald
Trump, with actions, or
Hillary Clinton, with
her words?
I will tell you who the better
friend is, and, someday, I
believe that will be proven
out bigly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Matt,
how do you explain the
transgender military decision?
MATT SCHLAPP: Well, for
seven-and-a-half years of
the Obama administration,
they had a prohibition
that equates to what
President Trump announced.
Now, all we have is a tweet.
I don't know what
it means in detail.
I don't know what it means for
the people serving, but you
get to this basic question,
right, which is, you know,
what do the commanders
want in the field, right?
And I think that what was
intended by this administration,
at least what Sarah Huckabee
Sanders said, to expand upon the
tweet, was that he is listening
to the services and what
they want.
And for seven-and-a-half years
in the Obama administration,
they had a similar plan, not
because I think there was
animus towards transgender
people or the gay community.
I think it was because they were
simply focusing on what generals
were saying they needed to
be ready in the field.
But this will all be
handled in Congress.
The funding all goes through
Congress, and we will have a
democratic debate on whether
or not this should
happen or not.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Karine, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, General Joe Dunford,
said today that -- they said,
we're waiting for guidance.
Right now, we want to
continue to respect
everybody in the military.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE:
That's right, Judy.
Look, usually, when
you make this type of
policy, you articulate
it on paper, you create
a policy.
You don't tweet about it.
And so the Pentagon can't
actually act on this.
They can't act on a tweet.
They were never given
a piece of policy.
And so, once again, you have
a president who doesn't care
to learn, who doesn't know how
the process works, and
he uses Twitter to put --
to really feed his base.
And that's what we're seeing.
And, look, the other part about
this, too, is that he made that
promise during the election.
It was an outrageous
comment when we heard it.
No one ever -- no one
really, truly believed it.
And it became a lie on day
one of his administration.
This is not an administration
that cares about brown people,
black people or transgendered
or LGBT communities.
We have seen this -- or women.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matt?
MATT SCHLAPP: I don't think
that accurately describes
Donald Trump's heart.
I have talked to him about
these sets of issues.
For seven-and-a-half years
of the Obama administration,
they had the very same policy.
And I don't think that President
Obama was discriminating
for those seven-and-a-half
years.
And I think the
next question on...
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're saying
it was only at the end when
they changed the policy.
MATT SCHLAPP: They
changed it at the end.
But, really, the military
hasn't understood how
to implement this.
And Secretary of Defense
Mattis and all of the service
chiefs knew that they were in
the process of review.
They have been discussing this.
People who track this issue knew
that they were trying to figure
out, could this be implemented
or not?
JUDY WOODRUFF: But
still no paper.
It was a tweet.
MATT SCHLAPP: Well,
the announcement is
completely unconventional.
It's hard for somebody
like me to even explain
what the implications are.
The country needs
the details on this.
So, I think Karine's point
on that is very fair.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Very quickly,
finally, to both of you, Karine.
You expect the attorney general
to stay where he is, Jeff
Sessions, given what's going on?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE:
Well, I will try to be
really quick here, Judy.
Look, I do not think the
attorney general should
be the attorney general.
I think he is a racist.
I think he has
racist background.
And he lied and perjured
himself in front of Congress.
But that's not the reason
why Donald Trump doesn't
want him in the job anymore.
He doesn't want him in the job
because of the Russia thing.
He wants -- he was upset
that Sessions didn't
recuse himself, and he
wants to fire Bob Mueller.
That's why he wants to
get rid of Sessions.
MATT SCHLAPP: President Trump
doesn't want Jeff Sessions to
leave the office of the attorney
general.
I think what President Trump
is saying is, he's frustrated
that a special counsel was
picked without it even being
run by Jeff Sessions, and
that that investigation
seems to be overshadowing
his presidency.
When you have seen the leaks
that have come out against
Donald Trump, when you have seen
that the DNC has a
staffer that's worked
with the government of
Ukraine, there are plenty
of things on the other side
of the ledger that I think
Republicans would like to see
DOJ look at as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He's been pretty
tough on this attorney general,
though, the last few days.
MATT SCHLAPP: He has been.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matt
Schlapp, Karine
Jean-Pierre, thank you both.
MATT SCHLAPP: Thank you, Judy.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE:
Thanks, Judy.